I am writing to express my interest in this position. As an individual with hands-on experience in data analysis and strong problem-solving skills, graduated from Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, and having work experience as Data Scientist in R&D at ShieldSquare I am confident I will make a successful addition to your organization.
Currently, I am looking for a place where I can put in use my assiduity for work, alacrity to learn, perseverance to complete as well compete combined with the tenacity to further expand my horizon. On a personal level, I am detailed-oriented, organized, and precise in my work. I have gained wide knowledge and understanding to use data and analytic ability to manage a large amount of data, merge data sources, ensure consistency of datasets, create the visualization, and build mathematical models using data. I have strong communication skills with a knack for clear and illuminating presentation. I am comfortable on my own facing the numbers, though I really enjoy being part of a motivated team of smart people.
My qualifications include:
- Well-versed in collection and analysis of data using various statistical techniques.
- Acquainted with the overall framework of data analysis field. 
- Acquired education from well-experienced professionals from around the globe through coursera portal.
- Proficient in using various analytical tools.
I believe that a combination of my current data analytic skills and work experience with my ability to learn quickly and applying them to new scenarios will fit well in this job.
Please find my contact information at the bottom of this letter, as well as my enclosed resume. I appreciate your time spent reading this letter, and looking forward to communicating in the future. 
Sincerely,
Mohit Rajput
Tel: 08979572630
Email: mohitrajput901@gmail.com



I'm a experienced professional with in depth and hands on experience in developing data science related project, POC, and Products. Majority of my work experience has been in IC roles. I have handled data in multiple V's form, be it volume, velocity, value or variety. Few of the work I have covered include computer vision based analytics running on edge device, chatbot integrated on whatsapp to act as my personal assistant with the feature to store the relevant information and sending me reminders about occasions etc, bot creation for app automation using selenium. I have also developed keen interest in Data Science related Product Management. I have completed few courses and nano degree about this.

At the moment I'm feeling that I'm not able to generate that much value as I can because of being present in an IC role and doing all the thing myself including the easy things too that consume large time. Hence, want some guidance of the next steps, the scope and the way to raise my positions, possibly in a way to manage a team.